.TH ANYCOMPRESS 1
.SH NAME
anycompress \- use any CompLearn module data compressor to compress a file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B anycompress [-L] [ -c
.I compressor
.B ] [
.I infile
.B ] [
.B outfile
.B ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
anycompress is a simple and powerful generic compression tool.  By default,
it reads an input file from standard input.  If a command argument is given
it will use that as input instead.  It produces an output file (or writes to
stdout if reading from stdin) by adding an extension to the end of the
input filename.  The user may optionally specify an output filename instead.
The compressor to use may be specified using the complearn.conf(5)
configuration file or the -c command line option as described below.
.TP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-compressor\fR=\fIcompressor\fR
use and set compressor to use
.TP
\fB\-L\fR, \fB\-\-list\fR
list available builtin compressors as well as available compression modules.
Modules are loaded from the modules subdirectory of /usr/lib/complearn.
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
show help options and exit
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
To gzip a text file to produce a file called readme.txt.gz:
.TP
anycompress -c gzip readme.txt
.TP
To compute the SHA2 (SHA256) checksum of a file (assuming you have the
complearn cryptographic compression modules installed):
anycompress -c sha2 < /bin/ls
To do the same with MD5:
anycompress -c md5 < /bin/ls
.SH FILES
.TP
.I $HOME/.complearn/complearn.conf
.TP
.I /usr/share/complearn/complearn.conf
.TP
.I /usr/local/share/complearn/complearn.conf
.TP
 per-user and system configuration files
see
.BR complearn (5)
for further details.

.TP
.I $HOME/.complearn/modules
.TP
.I /usr/lib/complearn/modules
.TP
 standard module automatic loading area.  Any shared object compressor
modules found here will be loaded on startup.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.I COMPLEARNMODPATH
.RS
 If this environment variable is set, CompLearn will search the given directory and load any CompLearn compression modules it finds there (such as the
libart.so example included with the CompLearn source distribution)
none
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
none
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR anydecompress (1),
.BR complearn (5),
.BR complearn-config (1),
.BR maketree (1),
.BR ncd (1)
