.TH COMPLEARN 5
.SH NAME
complearn \- file format for the complearn configuration file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B $HOME/.complearn/complearn.conf
- controls options for CompLearn
.SH DESCRIPTION

The CompLearn toolkit is a suite of utilities to analyze arbitrary data.
The commands
.BR ncd (1),
.BR maketree (1),
all use the \fBcomplearn.conf\fR configuration file.
First, the user home directory (\fI$HOME\fR) is searched for a directory called
\fB.complearn\fR.  Within this directory, CompLearn reads a file called
\fBcomplearn.conf\fR, a text file structured in the .desktop file format.
If CompLearn can not locate this file, default values are used.  CompLearn
will create a skeletal example file for easy reference in this case.
A configuration file specified in this manner overrides all other options.

For more information on the CompLearn project, please see
\fIhttp://www.complearn.org\fR

The complearn configuration file is a simple line-based format.
Blank lines are allowed.  Comments are designated with a \fB#\fR sign
at the start of the line only.  Each line is either a comment, a blank,
a group designator surrounded in []'s, or a name=value pair.  Some
configuration options are listed below; to find the rest, simply run
ncd and look in the $HOME/.complearn/complearn.conf file for a
full listing of all current property settings.

.TP
\fBcompressor\fR: string (ncd (1))
The builtin compressor to be used.  Valid values are: \fBbzip\fR, \fBzlib\fR,
and \fBgoogle\fR.

.TP
\fBblocksize\fR: int (ncd (1), bzip compressor)
An integer from 1 to 9. 9 gives the best compression but takes the most memory.
Default 9.

.TP
\fBworkfactor\fR: int (ncd (1), bzip compressor)
An integer from 0 to 250 and controls how the compression phase behaves when
presented with the worst case, highly repetitive, input date.  CompLearn's
default value of 30 gives reasonable behavior over a wide range of
circumstances.

.SH EXAMPLE

.nf

# comments are written like this

[complearn]
# print extra detailed information
    verbose=yes
# scheduling priority, higher is less CPU
    nice-level=19

[ncd]

# default compressor to use
    compressor=zlib
# etc

.fi

.SH FILES
.I $HOME/.complearn/complearn.conf
.RS per-user configuration file, overrides systemwide default
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ncd (1),
.BR maketree (1)
